These are the instructions to compile the minimum druntime library.

REQUIREMENTS

This modified library can not be compiled within gdc.
You should first have a working gcc and gdc for your target,
compiled without phobos and druntime.
Gcc has to be configured with --disable-libphobos.
Instructions to build gcc are in README.gdc and in the wiki. 

This repository follows the latest development of gdc and gcc.
Usually snapshots not older than some months are used and the
library should compile with current head of gdc. 
Gdc always requires matching gcc version, either release or
snapshot. In gdc sources there is file gcc.version, which tells
the matching gcc. There is no version check except for major version
number. Often a near gcc version ( +- 2 months) may work but
this is not guaranteed.

The library in this repository has been taken from gdc sources in 
august 2016 and works with gdc master, which is at D version 2.068.
It has been successfully compiled with gcc 7 head at the end of august
2016.

To use this library with stable gdc/gcc check out the 2.066 tag.
That should compile with gdc 2.066 and gcc 6 releases

To use this repository with older releases there is some tags for 
known stable points. 

The library for tag 2.065 can be compiled with gdc 2.065 and gcc
4.10 from end of june or with gcc 5.0 from end of august 2014.
Gcc changed its numbering system and 4.10 will never be released.

The library sources for tag 2.064 were taken from gdc head march 8,
2014 and should work with gdc and gcc release 4.9 

Tag 2.063 will work with gdc 2.063 and gcc 4.8 branch starting
from july 2013 and last time tested november 2013. This tag may also
work with newer 4.8 versions but this has not been tested.

BUILD AND INSTALL

To make this library, go to the libdruntime directory,
use the makefile in this directory and edit it for your target.

Do not try to use configure tools for this library. 
The files *.am and *.in are copied within the original package
but can not be used in this case.

If the compilation succeeds, there will be file libdruntime.a in this
directory. There is no 'install' in makefile. Just copy the library 
to a place where your linker will find it or add this directory to your
library search path.

USING THE LIBRARY

Remember to put the library source directory into your include search path.
The compiler always needs to find the whole source tree 
for imports. This seems generally to cause confusion.
Look at the files in tools directory for an example.

When compiling programs that use this library, remember to use the same
compiler settings for the library and the program.

Even if the library is compiled correctly, it may contain undefined
references that will show up at link time. Not all D constructions have
been tested. The compiler may generate calls to functions that are not
yet part of the library.

The following library routines are not part of the library and
must be provided: malloc, calloc, realloc and free.
A library function that will give the tls address is also needed.
The name of this function is target dependent.
Samples for these functions are in the tools directory.


